docs/docs/en/user/studio/gen-ai/features/gen-ai-feature-observability.md, before:

---
title: Gen AI - Observability Settings
---

# Le menu *Gen AI - Observability Settings*

- L'observabilité des modèles de langage (LLM Observability) aide à surveiller, d'analyser et de comprendre le comportement des modèles de langage à grande échelle.
- Cela inclut la collecte de données sur leurs performances, la détection d'anomalies et la compréhension des erreurs qu'ils peuvent produire. 
- L'objectif est de garantir que ces modèles fonctionnent de manière fiable, transparente, en fournissant des informations qui permettent d'améliorer leur performance et de corriger les problèmes potentiels.
- Plus précisément, nous pourrons :
    - Voir les différents enchainements d'appels de LLM avec le prompt d'entrée et de sortie
    - Analyser les portions de documents contextuels utilisés
    - Suivre les informations et les métriques sur les coûts, le nombre de jetons consommés, la latence, etc.


> Pour accéder à cette page il faut bénéficier du rôle **_botUser_**.
> <br />( plus de détails sur les rôles dans [securité]() ).

## Configuration
Pour permettre à Tock de se connecter à un outil d'observabilité, un écran de configuration a été mis en place : 

![LLM Observability](../../../../img/gen-ai/gen-ai-feature-observability.png "Ecran de configuration de l'outil d'observation de l'IA")

## Utilisation

- Voici la [liste des fournisseurs d'observabilité des LLM](../../../../user/studio/gen-ai/providers/gen-ai-provider-observability.md) qui sont pris en compte par Tock.
- Veuillez vous référer à la documentation de chaque outil pour comprendre comment l'utiliser.

Commit message:

[DERCBOT-1374] Public URL for Langfuse Observability Settings (#1856)
* Add optional public URL for langfuse

* Improved logic

* Documentation

* English Documentation

* PR Reviewed

* Code comment + cleanup

docs/docs/en/user/studio/gen-ai/features/gen-ai-feature-observability.md, after:

---
title: Gen AI - Observability Settings
---

# The _Gen AI - Observability Settings_ Menu

- **LLM Observability** helps monitor, analyze, and understand the behavior of large-scale language models.
- This includes collecting data on their performance, detecting anomalies, and understanding the errors they may produce.
- The goal is to ensure that these models operate reliably and transparently, providing insights that help improve their performance and address potential issues.
- Specifically, we can:
  - View different sequences of LLM calls, including input and output prompts.
  - Analyze contextual document sections used.
  - Track information and metrics such as costs, token consumption, latency, etc.

> To access this page, you must have the **_botUser_** role.
> <br />(More details on roles can be found in [security](../../../../../admin/securite#rôles)).

## Configuration
To enable Tock to connect to an observability tool, a configuration screen has been set up:

![LLM Observability](../../../../../img/gen-ai/gen-ai-feature-observability.png "Configuration screen for the AI observability tool")

## Public URL Configuration

- The **Public URL** field allows specifying an externally accessible URL for observability tools such as Langfuse.
- This URL will be used in the frontend interface to redirect users to observability traces, replacing the internal URL, which may not be publicly accessible.

## Usage

- Here is the [list of LLM observability providers](../../providers/gen-ai-provider-observability) supported by Tock.
- Please refer to each tool's documentation to understand how to use it.
