bot/connector-web/README.md, before:

# TOCK Web Connector

## Bot REST API usage

1) Add a web connector in admin interface with /test relative path.

2) Send text: `curl localhost:8080/test --data '{"query":"Hello","userId":"id"}'`

response:
```
{
  "responses": [
    {
      "text": "Welcome to the Tock Open Data Bot! :)"
    },
    {
      "text": "This is a Tock framework demonstration bot: https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock"
    },
    {
      "text": "Hey!",
      "buttons": [
        {
          "title": "Itineraries",
          "payload": "search?_previous_intent=greetings"
        },
        {
          "title": "Departures",
          "payload": "departures?_previous_intent=greetings"
        },
        {
          "title": "Arrivals",
          "payload": "arrivals?_previous_intent=greetings"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

3) Select a button: `curl localhost:8080/test --data '{"payload":"search?_previous_intent=greetings","userId":"id"}'`
```
{
  "responses": [
    {
      "text": "For which destination?"
    }
  ]
}
```

4) Get a card:

```
{
  "responses": [
    {
      "card": {
          {
            "title": "Title",
            "subTitle": "subTitle",
            "file": {
              "url": "https:/url1",
              "name": "name",
              "type": "image"
            },
            "actions": [
              {
                "title": "Test"
              },
              {
                "title": "Test2"
              }
            ]
          }
    }
  ]
}
```

5) Get a carousel:
```
{
  "responses": [
    {
      "carousel": {
        "cards": [
          {
            "title": "Title",
            "subTitle": "subTitle",
            "file": {
              "url": "https:/url1",
              "name": "name",
              "type": "image"
            },
            "actions": [
              {
                "title": "Test"
              },
              {
                "title": "Test2"
              }
            ]
          },
          {
            "title": "Title2",
            "subTitle": "subTitle2",
            "file": {
              "url": "https:/url2",
              "name": "name2",
              "type": "image2"
            },
            "actions": [
              {
                "title": "Test"
              },
              {
                "title": "Test2"
              }
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Swagger

A simple [Swagger descriptor](./Swagger_TOCKWebConnector.yaml) of the rest service is provided¬.

### CORS Configuration

By default, the web connector accepts requests from any origin. If a stricter CORS configuration is required, the
`tock_web_cors_pattern` property can be set to any Regex pattern, against which origin hosts get matched.

## Additional features

Several features can be optionally used with the Web Connector. Some require specific properties to be set, either
as a Java system property or as an environment variable (system property takes precedence).

### Server-sent events (SSE)

This connector supports sending messages using [Server-sent events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Server-sent_events).
This feature can be enabled by setting the `tock_web_sse` optional property to `true`.
When SSE is enabled, bot answers will be sent both as POST responses and as new events in the event stream -
the [tock-react-kit](https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock-react-kit#sse) is configured to ignore the former
while it is listening to server-sent events.
This is typically useful in scenarios where the bot has to perform
web API calls or expensive computations between messages of a single response,
as it allows users to see the first messages immediately.

Additionally, the web connector persists messages that fail to send immediately through the SSE stream,
and attempts to send them if and when the SSE connection is re-established.

The `tock_web_sse_keepalive_delay` optional property can be used to configure the number of seconds between
two SSE pings (default: 10).

#### Push messages

When SSE is enabled, the web connector allows sending push messages through the
[`notify` method](https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock/blob/master/bot/engine/src/main/kotlin/definition/DefinitionBuilders.kt).

Note that unlike with messaging apps, there is absolutely no guarantee that a user receives the message,
as they may have closed their browser since the last interaction. If they reopen the corresponding browsing tab,
they may still receive the message thanks to the aforementioned retry mechanism.

### React chat widget

The [`tock-react-kit`](https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock-react-kit) component provides integration with
Web pages, customizable chat widgets and orchestration with a Web connector back-end.

To send a custom widget, make a class implementing `WebWidget` and override the `data` property with one of
the desired type, which must serialize to a JSON object.

For example:
```kotlin
data class TrainCardWidget(override val data: TrainCardProps) : WebWidget

data class TrainCardProps(val departure: String, val arrival: String)
```

When sending messages using the [SSE](#server-sent-events-sse) feature, widgets must also be deserializable by KMongo.
This requires registering the widget's class in the application's bootstrap:
```kotlin
KMongoConfiguration.bsonMapper.subtypeResolver.registerSubtypes(
    TrainCardWidget::class.java,
)
```

### Extra headers

Sometimes it is useful to allow extra HTTP headers to bot requests, for instance to provide/pass authentication or 
custom parameters from the front-end.

Not-allowed headers can cause [_CORS_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) 
errors on the front-end.

The HTTP parameters, allowed by default can be found in [`WebConnector`](./src/main/kotlin/WebConnector.kt) source code.

To allow extra parameters without modifying the Web connector, use the optional `tock_web_connector_extra_headers` 
property.

To retrieve metadata present in extra headers (the list present in `tock_web_connector_extra_headers`) and use them in `Bus` in the `ConnectorData`, use the `tock_web_connector_use_extra_header_as_metadata_request` and pass it to true.

Docker-Compose example:

```
version: '3'
services:
bot_api:
  image: tock/bot_api:$TAG
  environment:
    - tock_web_connector_extra_headers=header1,header2,my-other-header-param
```

> To add extra headers from a [`tock-react-kit`](https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock-react-kit) front-end, 
> refer to its [README#extra-headers](https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock-react-kit#extra-headers).

### Cookie storage for userId

By default, a user's unique identifier is generated and stored by the client as an arbitrary string,
which is passed to the web connector through the HTTP body and/or through query parameters.
Setting the `tock_web_cookie_auth` property to `true`
makes it so the server stores users' identifiers in a secure, HTTP-only cookie, generating random unique identifiers
(using the UUID V4 format) if no such cookie is found.

Additionally, setting the `tock_web_cookie_auth_max_age` property to any positive number will configure
the cookie's `Max-Age` property to the specified number of seconds. If left to the default or set to a negative value,
the cookie will not have a `Max-Age` and will expire at the end of the user's browsing session.

The cookie does not have a [Path](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies#path_attribute) set by default,
which potentially allows per-connector user identifiers if the connector paths are sufficiently distinct.
If sharing the cookie between connectors is the preferred behavior, the `tock_web_cookie_auth_path` property can be used
to set a fixed `Path` shared by all web connectors.

### Markdown processing

This connector can process [Markdown formatting](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) in messages.
This feature can be enabled by setting the `tock_web_enable_markdown` property to `true`.
When Markdown processing is enabled, the text content of each message is rendered with a Markdown to HTML converter before being sent to the client.
Note that at the current time, only the main text body is rendered - markdown in cards and buttons is not supported yet.

Commit message:

fixes #1557 web_connector: fix dropped messages after network failure (#1808)
* fixes #1557 web_connector: fix dropped messages after network failure

bot/connector-web/README.md, after:

# TOCK Web Connector

## Bot REST API usage

1) Add a web connector in admin interface with /test relative path.

2) Send text: `curl localhost:8080/test --data '{"query":"Hello","userId":"id"}'`

response:
```
{
  "responses": [
    {
      "text": "Welcome to the Tock Open Data Bot! :)"
    },
    {
      "text": "This is a Tock framework demonstration bot: https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock"
    },
    {
      "text": "Hey!",
      "buttons": [
        {
          "title": "Itineraries",
          "payload": "search?_previous_intent=greetings"
        },
        {
          "title": "Departures",
          "payload": "departures?_previous_intent=greetings"
        },
        {
          "title": "Arrivals",
          "payload": "arrivals?_previous_intent=greetings"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

3) Select a button: `curl localhost:8080/test --data '{"payload":"search?_previous_intent=greetings","userId":"id"}'`
```
{
  "responses": [
    {
      "text": "For which destination?"
    }
  ]
}
```

4) Get a card:

```
{
  "responses": [
    {
      "card": {
          {
            "title": "Title",
            "subTitle": "subTitle",
            "file": {
              "url": "https:/url1",
              "name": "name",
              "type": "image"
            },
            "actions": [
              {
                "title": "Test"
              },
              {
                "title": "Test2"
              }
            ]
          }
    }
  ]
}
```

5) Get a carousel:
```
{
  "responses": [
    {
      "carousel": {
        "cards": [
          {
            "title": "Title",
            "subTitle": "subTitle",
            "file": {
              "url": "https:/url1",
              "name": "name",
              "type": "image"
            },
            "actions": [
              {
                "title": "Test"
              },
              {
                "title": "Test2"
              }
            ]
          },
          {
            "title": "Title2",
            "subTitle": "subTitle2",
            "file": {
              "url": "https:/url2",
              "name": "name2",
              "type": "image2"
            },
            "actions": [
              {
                "title": "Test"
              },
              {
                "title": "Test2"
              }
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

### Swagger

A simple [Swagger descriptor](./Swagger_TOCKWebConnector.yaml) of the rest service is provided¬.

### CORS Configuration

By default, the web connector accepts requests from any origin. If a stricter CORS configuration is required, the
`tock_web_cors_pattern` property can be set to any Regex pattern, against which origin hosts get matched.

## Additional features

Several features can be optionally used with the Web Connector. Some require specific properties to be set, either
as a Java system property or as an environment variable (system property takes precedence).

### Server-sent events (SSE)

This connector supports sending messages using [Server-sent events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Server-sent_events).
This feature can be enabled by setting the `tock_web_sse` optional property to `true`.
When SSE is enabled, bot answers will be sent both as POST responses and as new events in the event stream -
the [tock-react-kit](https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock-react-kit#sse) is configured to ignore the former
while it is listening to server-sent events.
This is typically useful in scenarios where the bot has to perform
web API calls or expensive computations between messages of a single response,
as it allows users to see the first messages immediately.

Additionally, the web connector persists messages that fail to send immediately through the SSE stream,
and attempts to send them if and when the SSE connection is re-established.

The `tock_web_sse_keepalive_delay` optional property can be used to configure the number of seconds between
two SSE pings (default: 10).

The `tock_web_sse_messages_ttl_days` optional property can be used to configure the number of days after which
enqueued messages get deleted. Note: this expiration only works on MongoDB v7.1.0 and up. Set to a
negative value to disable (default: -1).

The `tock_web_sse_message_queue_max_count` optional property can be used to configure the maximum number of enqueued
messages in the database. When a new message is enqueued past this limit, the oldest message gets deleted (default: 50000).

The `tock_web_sse_message_queue_max_size_kb` optional property can be used to configure the maximum size in kilobytes
of the message queue in the database. When a new message is enqueued past this limit, the oldest messages get deleted
(default: `2 * tock_web_sse_message_queue_max_count`).

#### Push messages

When SSE is enabled, the web connector allows sending push messages through the
[`notify` method](https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock/blob/master/bot/engine/src/main/kotlin/definition/DefinitionBuilders.kt).

Note that unlike with messaging apps, there is absolutely no guarantee that a user receives the message,
as they may have closed their browser since the last interaction. If they reopen the corresponding browsing tab,
they may still receive the message thanks to the aforementioned retry mechanism.

### React chat widget

The [`tock-react-kit`](https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock-react-kit) component provides integration with
Web pages, customizable chat widgets and orchestration with a Web connector back-end.

To send a custom widget, make a class implementing `WebWidget` and override the `data` property with one of
the desired type, which must serialize to a JSON object.

For example:
```kotlin
data class TrainCardWidget(override val data: TrainCardProps) : WebWidget

data class TrainCardProps(val departure: String, val arrival: String)
```

When sending messages using the [SSE](#server-sent-events-sse) feature, widgets must also be deserializable by KMongo.
This requires registering the widget's class in the application's bootstrap:
```kotlin
KMongoConfiguration.bsonMapper.subtypeResolver.registerSubtypes(
    TrainCardWidget::class.java,
)
```

### Extra headers

Sometimes it is useful to allow extra HTTP headers to bot requests, for instance to provide/pass authentication or 
custom parameters from the front-end.

Not-allowed headers can cause [_CORS_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) 
errors on the front-end.

The HTTP parameters, allowed by default can be found in [`WebConnector`](./src/main/kotlin/WebConnector.kt) source code.

To allow extra parameters without modifying the Web connector, use the optional `tock_web_connector_extra_headers` 
property.

To retrieve metadata present in extra headers (the list present in `tock_web_connector_extra_headers`) and use them in `Bus` in the `ConnectorData`, use the `tock_web_connector_use_extra_header_as_metadata_request` and pass it to true.

Docker-Compose example:

```
version: '3'
services:
bot_api:
  image: tock/bot_api:$TAG
  environment:
    - tock_web_connector_extra_headers=header1,header2,my-other-header-param
```

> To add extra headers from a [`tock-react-kit`](https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock-react-kit) front-end, 
> refer to its [README#extra-headers](https://github.com/theopenconversationkit/tock-react-kit#extra-headers).

### Cookie storage for userId

By default, a user's unique identifier is generated and stored by the client as an arbitrary string,
which is passed to the web connector through the HTTP body and/or through query parameters.
Setting the `tock_web_cookie_auth` property to `true`
makes it so the server stores users' identifiers in a secure, HTTP-only cookie, generating random unique identifiers
(using the UUID V4 format) if no such cookie is found.

Additionally, setting the `tock_web_cookie_auth_max_age` property to any positive number will configure
the cookie's `Max-Age` property to the specified number of seconds. If left to the default or set to a negative value,
the cookie will not have a `Max-Age` and will expire at the end of the user's browsing session.

The cookie does not have a [Path](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Cookies#path_attribute) set by default,
which potentially allows per-connector user identifiers if the connector paths are sufficiently distinct.
If sharing the cookie between connectors is the preferred behavior, the `tock_web_cookie_auth_path` property can be used
to set a fixed `Path` shared by all web connectors.

### Markdown processing

This connector can process [Markdown formatting](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) in messages.
This feature can be enabled by setting the `tock_web_enable_markdown` property to `true`.
When Markdown processing is enabled, the text content of each message is rendered with a Markdown to HTML converter before being sent to the client.
Note that at the current time, only the main text body is rendered - markdown in cards and buttons is not supported yet.
