---
title: i18n - guide
---

# Building a multilingual bot with Tock

The _Tock Studio_ interface allows you to translate and modulate a bot's responses according to the
language but also the channel used.

## Prerequisites

Tock provides a complete internationalization framework. It is enabled by default in _Bot API_ mode
(for example on the [demo platform](https://demo.tock.ai/)).

In _Integrated Bot_ mode (see the [developer manual](../../../dev/modes.md)), internationalization
is disabled by default. To enable it, it is then necessary to configure the platform at startup:

* Either via the bot startup code (developer):
```kotlin
Translator.enabled = true
```
* Or with a _System property_ (administrator) by passing ```-Dtock_i18n_enabled=true``` at JVM startup

## Enable multiple languages ​​for a bot

It is possible to add and manage active languages ​​for a bot in the _NLU Applications_ section
(in _Tock Studio_). See [_The Settings menu_](../studio/configuration.md).

At any time in _Tock Studio_, it is possible to change the language selected in the banner at the top of the page,
in particular to communicate with a bot in the _Test the bot_ interface. See [_General interface_](../studio/general.md).

## User language and *locale*

When possible, the user's _locale_ (language/region) is imported from their account's.

> For example, if a Messenger user's account is set to French, French will be automatically
selected by Tock.

If there is no locale specified, Tock's default locale is used.

A developer can change the user's locale in the bot's code itself:

```kotlin
userPreferences.locale = Locale.FRENCH
```

Finally, the default locale can be changed by a platform administrator, by passing the _System_ property
```-Dtock_default_locale=fr``` when starting the JVM.

## Translate and vary the bot's answers

In _Tock Studio_, the _Stories & Answers_ > _Answers_ section allows you to manage the labels of the bot's answers.

See [_The Stories & Answers menu_](../studio/stories-and-answers.md).

Each label has a default value for each language of the bot.

It is possible to design and configure different variants:

* Depending on the language
* Depending on the channel / connector
> For example, some channels require specific labels, either because the channel owner requires it
>(on Alexa, the use of the formal "vous" is required), or because the user experience differs from other channels (for example
>in voice, we will avoid sentences that are too long).
* Randomly (so that the bot does not always answer the same thing)

## Massively translate models and responses

Features are being studied to allow the more or less automated translation of many user sentences (corpus / conversational model) and responses (labels / i18n). To be continued...

For the moment, to consider a mass translation, we can for example:

1. Export the data in JSON or CSV with _Tock Studio_
2. Translate the sentences/responses outside of Tock (SaaS API, agency...)
3. Import the translations with _Tock Studio_

> Note: at the time of import, only the labels marked _validated_ are taken into account.

## Develop with internationalization

The [Tock developer manual](../../dev/i18n.md) gives more details on the development of multilingual bots.